>> Kent C. Dodds: So
I'm gonna talk a little bit about how you
can take snapshots too far and
what their real role is.
But before I do that, does anybody have
any questions or observations, yeah?
>> off screen male: So, part of render
automatically generates a snapshot?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Good question,
I'm glad you asked.
So render doesn't actually
care anything about snapshots.
It's all very just, like, DOM focused and
rendering React components to DOM nodes.
So the snapshot,
the job of the snapshot is jest and
this assertion to match snapshots.
So we pass a DOM node to match snapshot,
and it will be responsible for
serializing it and
saving it into a snapshot file.
>> off screen male: So then, the first
time it tries to do a comparison, if there
is nothing, if there is no existing
snapshot it will generate the initial.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yep,
that's exactly right.
So, I'm glad you asked that also,
cuz it would be good to see
what an update would look like.
If I change this to name, for example,
then we'll see the snapshot fails.
And it shows us what
that failure looks like.
And then it'll tell us right here,
inspect your code changes or
press U to update them.
I could press U and
it'll update my snapshot.
Except now my other test is broken cuz
it depends on this being username.
So I'll change it back and my snapshot
will now fail because it updated.
So I'm gonna hit U to update it again and
we're all set.
And because we're including CSS,
because of that snapshot serializer,
if I go to form, where we're
using glamourous for this stuff.
And I align items left.
Then I'm going to see
that also will change.
That includes our vendor prefixes,
which happens at runtime.
You see that's not actually written out,
but it is important here, so.
And we could update that with you and
so on and so forth.
So snapshots are not the only way
to accomplish what we're doing,
but it pretty much enables it.
Cuz like I would certainly not want to
copy paste all of that into my test file
and then the serializer
aspect of it as well.
Where it formats it nicely for
you and everything.
So I'm glad we have snapshots,
it's pretty cool.
Yes.
>> off screen male: Do they contribute to
the coverage report?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yes.
So I'm rendering the component.
I'm running all this code to get
that container in the first place.
And so the fact that I'm running all
that code will count it as coverage.
>> off screen male: So
if you rendered an entire component,
would that be [INAUDIBLE] if new
component was just the HTML.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Mm-hm.
>> off screen male: Would that give
you 100% coverage right off the bat?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yep, it certainly would.
And if your component's
just like pure HTML,
then that would be a potentially
reasonable thing to snapshot.
But if I'm looking at a pull request of
a component that's just HTML stuff and
then the snapshot,
I'm gonna see two diffs.
I'm gonna see the diff in
the component that's just HTML.
And then I'm gonna see
an identical diff in the snapshot.
And then I'm gonna wonder to myself, what
value is that test really providing me?
Because it would provide me value if it,
like, I didn't realize that this
update was gonna change this.
But, no, yes, clearly I did
because the diff looks identical.
You won't even know, is this the snapshot
I'm looking at or the component?
So I wouldn't really snapshot
something like that.
Good question, yeah?
>> off screen male: Is there a way
to undo an update of a snapshot?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, git reset.
[LAUGH] Or
git checkout that snapshot file.
Yeah, jest won't keep track of those for
you, though.
So snapshots kind of in that
vein are not really useful for
TDD, test driven developement.
Because unless you handcraft the snapshot,
which when I'm doing the babel plugin,
sometimes I do actually
handcraft the snapshot,
cuz I know exactly what
I want it to look like.
But generally you don't
handcraft the snapshot.
So yeah, it's not really normally
a good candidate for TDD.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Any other questions?
You're wondering what I have to say
about effective use of snapshots?
Let me show you an ineffective
use of snapshots.
And this is a pretty small app
that we're running in here.
But I have a snapshot of the entire app,
the homepage of the app.
It's a pretty small app, but
this snapshot's 260 lines of code.
When I first started doing snapshots
on my team, we started getting snapshot
files that were easily 1,500 lines long or
way longer.
And that was pretty cool.
It's like, man, we will never not
know that things are going to change.
That's great.
But you already know that
because you see a git diff.
Yes, things changed, clearly.
The nice thing about snapshots is
that you know what impact a change,
like you change the button,
all the snapshots are gonna break.
And you can update those, and
you're like, okay,
that button's used over here, so it broke.
So that's kind of useful, it's kinda nice.
But what ends up happening, and
Peter and I were talking about this,
it's 3 o'clock in the afternoon.
You're like, you just wanna make this pull
request so people will review it, and so
you're like, okay, great.
It says seven snapshots failed,
you're scrolling through the, looks good.
You hit the U key, you get them updated,
you push it up to GitLab or GitHub or
whatever, people, now it's 4 o'clock and
your coworkers are like, okay,
let's just get this thing merged.
Peter really wants to get this in.
So I'm just gonna scroll through,
yeah, it looks.
And he probably was careful about this,
so I'm gonna just trust him and
I'll just merge this.
And now you have a broken app because
people didn't review it carefully enough.
So that's kind of a team
discipline problem.
But if our software allows team
discipline to break our software,
then maybe we should.
Or if our tools allow team
discipline to break our software,
maybe we should be using different tools.
And so I have this blog post
called effective snapshot testing.
Here, I'll post this in the chat,
I keep forgetting to do that.
Hey look, George already did that.
[LAUGH] Thanks, George.
But I quote Justin Searls,
who is a really big tester,
especially in the Ruby ecosystem but
also in the JavaScript ecosystem.
And he explains several of the things
that he doesn't like about snapshots.
And basically says
snapshots are worthless.
I take a step back from that a little bit
and I say, yeah, snapshots do have their
places and there are a couple
places where they really shine.
So Babel plugins and
with being able to snapshot CSS.
So if you have various components that
are style-specific, it can be nice to
know when those styles are going to change
and what impact those changes will have.
And then it gives you a couple ideas
of things that you can to improve
your effective use of snapshots.
So in general, what we're trying
to accomplish when we're testing,
well, there's the side of
testing where it's like,
okay, I'm testing to enhance my workflow,
that's TDD stuff.
But normally what I care about with
testing is to bring confidence to
myself that my applications are working
in the way that I intend them to.
And snapshots don't quite do that.
Because when I say my application's
working the way that I intend it to,
well, this snapshot could break if
somebody refactors and removes that.
But my application's still working
the way I intend it, right?
So there's nothing that
actually changes with that.
That's actually kind of
an implementation detail.
And so there's no way for
me, in a snapshot,
to communicate what part of this snapshot
really matters for this particular test.
What's important here.
And so because that's hard to communicate,
somebody coming down the line to maintain
your tests that you left around,
they are unable to know, like,
I broke a snapshot, is that okay?
They don't really know if it's
okay to break a certain snapshot.
And so generally what I would
suggest is try to query around
the DOM to the specific thing that's
important for your test and snapshot that.
And what often happens is like,
this test only cares that the image gets
or this image gets the right source.
And so I'm gonna snapshot that.
And now I have an image.
And it's got the right
source in my snapshot.
And then I'll take another step back and
think, I could actually
just change the assertion.
Instead of two match snapshot,
like get attribute source
equals this source string.
And just put that right in my test.
So now I don't need a snapshot anyway.
So snapshots are great.
Just use them like with critical thinking
about whether you really actually
need to use the snapshot.
Yes?
>> off screen male: Okay, so by explaining
how we shouldn't use them, you're
describing a lot of situations where
there's a really high signal to noise
ratio so that people basically
get into the habit of
ignoring the noise.
And so that's the danger,
I understand that.
I'm still trying to wrap my, yeah, okay,
so narrowing the focus of your snapshot so
that you're isolating just
the thing that you care about.
Well, isn't that the point of any of the
other testing tools that are built into
jest?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, so
you're suggesting, okay, so
what's the point of snapshots if
we're going to narrow it down anyway?
>> off screen male: And also, following
along with the point that you have been
going along with,
the whole way has been, look,
pay attention to what the user would
see and what the user cares about.
The user doesn't care about
how it looks when the DOM-
>> Kent C. Dodds: What the DOM looks like.
>> off screen male: Yeah,
what the DOM pukes out into text?
They care about how it looks and/or
whether there's a spinner or not.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Mm-hm.
>> off screen male: Whatever the label
on an input or a submit button, so.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, no,
I totally agree with you.
And honestly,
I don't use snapshots a whole lot.
Recently, when I was preparing this
workshop, I was thinking critically about
this, and like, okay, how can I tell
these people that snapshots, or
how can I communicate that
snapshots do have a place?
And I actually tweeted,
I'm like, I actually don't think
that snapshots do have a place.
And some people kind of convinced
me that snapshots are useful if
you can as a team decide that they
don't replace good unit tests.
And so you'll notice that we actually
have like full coverage with this test.
But then in addition, we have a snapshot.
And so it's okay if your team
is conditioned to just update.
But I wouldn't condition the team to just
update and not think about it at all.
But having a snapshot in
place means that if I
make a change to one of these
dependencies and I say, okay,
now the font size is gonna be 17 and
then my snapshot breaks.
It might break a snapshot that
I wasn't expecting it to break.
I didn't realize that component
X uses FieldContainer.
Now I have to kind of think
about that a little bit.
So as long as you as a team decide, okay,
these are not going to replace solid unit
tests, but they're just here to supplement
the existing unit tests to kind of help
us catch those little cases like that.
Then it's okay to not really
rigorously review those snapshots,
because you have a whole suite of unit
tests that would catch the things
that actually really do matter.
And so that's kind of where I've landed
on how I feel about snapshot testing with
a UI is that its more of a just kind of a
gut check that this is changing things and
the things that it's
changing I'm okay with.
Yes?
>> off screen male: So
is it like a snapshot can be used only for
the UI elements?
Or can we use the snapshot for
some kind of utility functions or
some transformation functions?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah.
>> off screen male: Can we still use
snapshot, or do you think it is just a UI
document renders, we can use snapshot?
>> Kent C. Dodds: No, so
in my example here right down here.
So we're snapshotting an object.
Here we're snapshotting, and
that object includes errors and dates and
all kinds of stuff.
So yeah.
So it can be useful for
snapshotting lots of stuff.
And actually, there is another
assertion that I find quite useful.
It's called, let's see,
toThrowErrorMatchingSnapshot.
So if you have an error message,
you're like, it throws an error.
I could say like, you wanna make
sure it's throwing the right error.
And so you're gonna have like a regex that
matches your error or something like that.
Instead, you just snapshot that.
And somebody changes the error message,
really easy to update.
Like it's totally fine.
It's a way to verify that.
So I actually use this one a fair amount.